Resource ID@Resource Name@Resource Description
0@Water@Greece was famously poor in water: sources include the natural cisterns which formed where softer limestones eroded, and springs, which were often deified in the form of water nymphs. Smaller local rivers would be deified as male gods, and large rivers like the Danube and the Nile were objects of wonders and fantastic tales. The creation of fountain houses was one way that rules and tyrants sought to gain the goodwill of the people; collecting water from these was part of life’s daily rhythm for women and slaves.  When it comes to your ship, your sailors are pulling oars and managing sails all day - so adequate water provisions are critical for your success! 
1@Provisions@A hungry crew is a dangerous crew! Sailors must be fed – adequate supplies will keep minds sharp, oars swift and your revolts at bay.  You will probably take on only enough food to get to the next port, wherever that may be. Ancient epics describe the swiftness with which food is the first priority once you get to land – crews go hunting, are welcomed to feasts, or raid  and feast mindlessly. Odysseus himself complained about this: for man, the belly is king.
2@Grain@Grain was fundamental to the Greek diet, and the cheapest source of calories. Greek soils were poor, however, which meant that grain very early on became an important object of trade. The search for grain grew in political, military and financial importance as great cities, unable to feed themselves off their own hinterland, emerged.  Barley is the oldest cultivated grain in Greece, appearing as early as the 7th millennium; it makes very poor, heavy bread. The phrase ‘to eat only barley’ is the ancient equivalent of ‘bread and water’ – e.g. the poorest diet of all.  Wheat was more labor-intensive and vulnerable to crop failure.  The best wheats came from the Black Sea coast and Crimea, and the trek taken by the Argonauts runs in sealanes informed by these needs.  In the 6th century BC, Solon notes that those who dined at state expense usually ate barley, but would get wheat on special feast days.
3@Wine@The trade in wine is rolling already in the Bronze Age! The differences in the final product from one region to another led to a wine connoiseurship which persisted though antiquity: some wines were kept for up to 200 years, and could increase 20 fold in their value. Odysseus sounds like a wine snob when he describes the drink he was given: \nMaron, son of Euanthes, made me some fine presents; he gave me seven talents of wrought gold, with a mixing bowl of silver, and he drew off for me as well a full dozen jars of mellow unmixed wine. And a wonderful drink it was. It had been kept secret from everyone in the house but himself, his good wife, and a single stewardess. When they drank this red and honeyed vintage, he used to pour one cupful of wine into twenty of water and the sweet fmes that came up from the bowl were irresistible – those were occasions when abstinence could have no charms. Odyssey 9.197\nPliny gives us a glimpse into how quickly thoughts of wine brought forth tales of mythic inventors: The most ancient celebrity belongs to the wine of Maronea grown in the seabord parts of Thrace, as we learn from Homer. We need not pursue the legendary stories about its origin, except that Aristaeus was the first person in the same nation who mixed honey with wine, because of the oustandingly agreeable quality of each of these products… Natural History 14.52
4@Timber@Wood was in demand and traded abroad to supply fuel, housing, furniture, pitch and repairs to fleets.  The best timber came from Macedonia, Arcadia and Thessaly. Oak was the strongest, heaviest wood, favored for houses and furniture, and called the king of the Greek forests. Ash trees were favored for military purposes – Homer’s warriors fight with spears made of ash. Cedar trees were especially prized for temple roofs, while fir trees were bound for the sea, as they yielded long, lightweight flexible timber.  Pine  and cypress could also be used for shipbuilding when needed
5@Gold@Aphrodite was often called ‘Golden Aphrodite’; solid gold vessels have been retrieved from archaeological sites dating to as early as 4000 BC. Gold could be had in the Aegean, with the best sources at Mt. Pangaeus in Thrace and nearby Thasos, and the island of Siphnos. Most gold, however,  came to Greece from Phrygia and Lydia, where the myth of King Midas was born.  It was far too precious to be used very often for coins – you were much more likely to use your gold to announce your status or enhance your beauty.
6@Silver@Athens itself had great silver resources at Laurion – and used it to build their navy! Thrace was another important source of silver. Silver was  used for coinage as well as plates, statuary, and jewelry.  
7@Copper@Cyprus is one of the richest sources of copper in the ancient world!  One Bronze Age shipwreck off the Asia Minor coast, ca. 1330 BC, yielded 354 oxhide-shaped ingots. Each one would weigh about one talent, or 60 pounds. 160 of these ingots had marks incised which suggested their place of origin: some seem to look like fishhooks, tridents, fish, and boats.
8@Tin@The source of tin in the ancient Mediterranean is a great mystery: Cornwall, Thailand, Afghanistan have all been suggested.  Tin bronzes were favored above arsenic bronzes – so finding and shipping it was critical!
9@Obsidian@Obsidian is one of the earliest raw materials to be imported around the Mediterranean: it appears in the Mesolithic (7250 BC) on the Greek mainland at Franchthi cave, imported from Melos, 150 miles across the open sea. It is sharper than flint, tho not as strong used for making super-sharp blades; early uses are microliths for projectile points and harpoon barbs, sickle edges, and even jewelry.
10@Lead@Lead is a frequent by-product of silver production. Though it was traded in the form of ingots, lead was also used for sling bullets. Ancient soldiers would engrave insults on them for their enemies; the Roman poet Ovid described sling bullets so fast they would heat up and glow as they flew threw the air. 
11@Slaves@Human beings became objects of exchange, sources of labor, and educators in the households of their masters in the context of war and violence.  Piracy was a significant source of slavery in the ancient world, often deriving benefit from state-sponsored wars.  Kidnapping, foundling children, the sale of children by impoverished parents and extreme forms of punishment also swelled the ranks of slaves. Certain industries, such as mining and textiles, relied on slave labor.  In the ancient comic tradition, the slave smarter than his master became a stock character.  Slaves from different regions were valued for different skills: Skythians were used as police;  Thracian slaves were considered good miners. he secrets of iron metallurgy seem to have been one of the technologies carefully controlled by late Bronze Age palace cultures.  Iron was harder to produce than bronze, and it was prone to rust – but on the positive side, the raw materials could be had nearly everywhere. Once its technology was widely known, it meant that the average man could have the benefit of metal tools and weapons.That knowledge flooded into the Mediterranean at the end of th Bronze age, in the 12th century BC, and seems to have given rise to one of the earliest arms races known to man: an iron blade was the sine qua non of the Aegean male, from one end of the sea to the other.
12@Iron@The secrets of iron metallurgy seem to have been one of the technologies carefully controlled by late Bronze Age palace cultures.  Iron was harder to produce than bronze, and it was prone to rust – but on the positive side, the raw materials could be had nearly everywhere. Once its technology was widely known, it meant that the average man could have the benefit of metal tools and weapons.That knowledge flooded into the Mediterranean at the end of th Bronze age, in the 12th century BC, and seems to have given rise to one of the earliest arms races known to man: an iron blade was the sine qua non of the Aegean male, from one end of the sea to the other.
13@Bronze@Hesiod names the age of heroes the age of Bronze: long after iron weapons have replaced bronze in ordinary use, bronze is in use for sculpture.  Bronzes in the ancient world were an alloy of copper and either arsenic or tin.  The cost and rarity of tin meant that another helpful way to produce bronze was to throw into your cauldron of copper some scrap bits of bronze –and so repurpose that original tin
14@Prestige Goods@Prestige goods perform important social work: announcing your klout was an important step in making it happen! The prestige goods you give to others, dedicate to the gods, put on your person or display in your home all help make sure that you count in the ancient world – and that other people are doing the counting.